---
layout: post
title: Michael Lyons
permalink: index.html
---

# About

I'm a software developer on the east coast of the United States who spent most of his formative years in south-east Asia.

Most of my work is on a web application in C# and the front end that goes along with that, but I do most of my scripting in Python.

I am fully aware that the domain doesn't quite match my name, but there wasn't a `.ns` [ccTLD][] and I wasn't about to pass up the opportunity for a 6-character domain name. (I promptly spoiled it with a decision to subdomain it.)

## Hobbies

### Books

I read sci-fi, particularly idea-driven plots, and other fiction as well as biographies, history, and the occasional nonfiction thought experiment. While my reading used to be pretty open, I've gotten to be pickier about things I like.

Particular pet peeve: unrealistic character development or characters who do things against their nature to drive a plot that the author wants to advance. I consider that to be weak storytelling.

### Bicycles

My bike is an aluminum cyclocross frame with a steel fork. I convinced myself to buy the thing by doing the math for how much money I could save on transportation to and from work. I doubt that I paid it off as soon as my calculations had indicated, but it was a good purchase.

I mostly keep it on the road, despite its ruggedness. It's gone on a couple of 100-350 mile trips and had its share of mishaps. Even so, I'd be lying to say I was anything but a fair-weather cyclist.

### Board games

Growing up, my family played the usual Monopoly / Risk / Uno games pretty regularly. We had some introduction to other games from Scotland Yard, Dutch Blitz, a physical dexterity game called Arch-Rival, and the partly-electronic game Lost Treasure.

The traditional games started to fade from our repetoire as Monopoly was won exclusively by my brother, Risk by me (not that I'm a Risk ace), and Dutch Blitz by my mother. Though I don't play very often with family anymore, I am happy to learn new games with friends, and my horizons have definitely broadened.

### Programming

You can read more in the [projects][] section, but here are short blurbs:

#### Treeview Tags

A way to present a large number of hierarchical tags to a web user.

#### Zombie Dice math

Not strictly programming, but I think it should be possible to write a statistics-analysis program that can always win at [zombie dice][zd] in the long run.

#### Email syntax highlighting

I discovered years ago that [KDE][]'s [Kate][] editor has syntax highlighting for `.eml` files, but I primarily use [Sublime Text][st3].

#### Radio Paradise Pebble app

An internet radio station I listen to has a dedicated Android app. Before they implemented the AVRCP bluetooth protocol, I was looking for a way to manage the controls from my smartwatch.

### Poetry

For a while I was into writing poetry, some of which was decent (but most of which was doggerel). I may end up reposting it here.

[ccTLD]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Country_code_top-level_domain
[projects]: /projects
[zd]: http://zombiedice.sjgames.com
[kde]: https://www.kde.org
[kate]: http://kate-editor.org
[st3]: http://sublimetext.com